ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated and combined financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained herein.
For management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2018 as compared to fiscal year 2017 please refer to Part II, Item 7 "Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 19, 2019.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
We are an energy technology company with a diversified portfolio of technologies and services that span the energy and industrial value chain. We conduct business in more than 120 countries and employ approximately 68,000 employees. We operate through our four business segments: Oilfield Services (OFS), Oilfield Equipment (OFE), Turbomachinery & Process Solutions (TPS), and Digital Solutions (DS).
We sell products and services primarily in the global oil and gas markets, within the upstream, midstream and downstream segments. Throughout 2019, the industry experienced continued volatility, with North America activity declining versus 2018, and growth internationally. Offshore markets remained relatively stable, with approximately 300 subsea trees being awarded. 2019 was a strong year for liquefied natural gas (LNG) related markets, with 71 million tons per annum of final investment decisions being reached on projects. Lastly, global GDP growth remained healthy throughout 2019, with some headwinds across the power sector. 
In 2019, we generated revenue of $23,838 million, compared to $22,877 million in 2018. The increase in revenue was driven primarily by increased activity in OFS and OFE partially offset by declines in TPS and DS. Income before income taxes and equity in loss of affiliate was $753 million in 2019, and included restructuring and impairment charges of $342 million and separation and merger related costs of $184 million. Separation and merger related costs include costs incurred in connection with the separation from GE and the finalization of the Master Agreement Framework. In 2018, loss before income taxes and equity in loss of affiliate was $680 million, which also included restructuring and impairment charges of $433 million, and separation and merger related costs of $153 million.
In June 2018, GE announced their intention to pursue an orderly separation from us over time. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we entered into a Master Agreement Framework which includes a series of related ancillary agreements and binding term sheets (which were later negotiated into definitive agreements) designed to further solidify the commercial and technological collaboration between us and GE. The Master Agreement Framework focuses on areas where we work most closely with GE on developing leading technology and executing for customers. First, we defined the parameters for long-term collaboration and partnership with GE on critical rotating equipment technology. Second, for our digital software and technology business we agreed to maintain the status quo as the exclusive supplier of GE Digital oil and-gas applications, although this commercial arrangement was modified pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, discussed below, including by rendering the relationship with GE Digital to be nonexclusive with respect to digital offerings in the oil and gas space. Finally, we reached agreements on a number of other areas including our controls business, pension, taxes, and intercompany services. All agreements within the Master Agreement Framework were finalized by the first quarter of 2019.
On July 31, 2019, we also entered into an Omnibus Agreement, a general framework agreement that addresses certain outstanding matters under existing long-term commercial agreements between us and GE. The Omnibus Agreement contains provisions regarding, among other things, (i) the repayment of certain outstanding amounts mutually owed by the parties, (ii) certain employee and assets transfers (including the allocation of costs and expenses associated therewith), and (iii) certain matters related to three international joint ventures. Modifications to the commercial arrangements between us and GE included, among other things, modification of the relationship between BHGE LLC and GE Digital to be nonexclusive with respect to digital offerings in the oil and gas space. For further details on these agreements see "Note 19. Related Party Transactions" of the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in Item 8 herein. On September 16, 2019, certain equity transactions were 
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

completed and GE’s ownership of Baker Hughes was reduced from approximately 50.3% to approximately 36.8%. As of December 31, 2019, GE's interest in us was 36.7%.
In aggregate, we anticipate that the net financial impact of the agreements contemplated by the Master Agreement Framework will have a slightly negative impact on our operating margin rates of approximately 20 to 40 basis points. In addition, we expect to incur one-time charges related to the separation from GE of approximately $0.2 billion to $0.3 billion over three years. We expect these charges to be primarily related to the build-out of information technology infrastructure as well as customary transaction fees. For a discussion of certain risks associated with separation, including risks related to our business, financial condition and results of operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors-Risk Factors Related to the Separation from GE.”
OUTLOOK
Our business is exposed to a number of different macro factors, which influence our expectations and outlook. All of our outlook expectations are purely based on the market as we see it today, and are subject to change given volatile conditions in the industry.

•   North America onshore activity: in 2019, we experienced a decline in rig count, as compared to 2018 driven by lower commodity prices over the year. We expect North American onshore activity will continue to decline in 2020. Over the long-term, we remain optimistic about the outlook.

•   International onshore activity: we have seen a moderate increase in rig count activity in 2019 and expect growth to continue into 2020, albeit at a slower rate. We expect most of the growth to come from Middle East, Latin America and Europe.

•   Offshore projects: we have seen stable customer activity and final investment decisions on offshore projects through 2019. We expect the offshore market fundamentals to support another solid year of orders with subsea tree awards in 2020 expected to remain relatively consistent with 2019. We expect to see continued growth in the flexible pipe market, following a strong orders performance in 2019.

•   Liquefied natural gas projects: we remain optimistic on the LNG market. While currently oversupplied, we believe a significant number of final investment decisions are needed to fill the projected supply-demand imbalance. In 2019, we have seen multiple large-scale LNG projects reach a positive final investment decision. We continue to view the long-term economics of the LNG industry as positive.

•   Refinery, petrochemical and industrial projects: in refining, we believe large, complex refineries should gain advantage in a more competitive, oversupplied landscape in 2019 as the industry globalizes and refiners position to meet local demand and secure export potential. The industrial market continues to grow as outdated infrastructure is replaced, policy changes come into effect and power is decentralized. We continue to see growing demand across these markets in 2020.
We have other segments in our portfolio that are more correlated with different industrial metrics such as our Digital Solutions business. Overall, we believe our portfolio is uniquely positioned to compete across the value chain, and deliver comprehensive solutions for our customers. We remain optimistic about the long-term economics of the industry, but are continuing to operate with flexibility given our expectations for volatility and changing assumptions in the near term.
While governments may change or may not continue incentives for renewable energy additions, in the long term, renewables' cost decline may accelerate to compete with new-built fossil capacity. However, we do not anticipate any significant impacts to our business in the foreseeable future.
Despite the near-term volatility, the long-term outlook for our industry remains positive. We believe the world’s demand for energy will continue to rise, and the supply of energy will continue to increase in complexity, requiring greater service intensity and more advanced technology from oilfield service companies. As such, we remain focused on delivering innovative, cost-efficient solutions that deliver step changes in operating and economic performance for our customers.
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity position as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes of the Company. 
We operate in more than 120 countries helping customers find, evaluate, drill, produce, transport and process hydrocarbon resources. Our revenue is predominately generated from the sale of products and services to major, national, and independent oil and natural gas companies worldwide, and is dependent on spending by our customers for oil and natural gas exploration, field development and production. This spending is driven by a number of factors, including our customers' forecasts of future energy demand and supply, their access to resources to develop and produce oil and natural gas, their ability to fund their capital programs, the impact of new government regulations and most importantly, their expectations for oil and natural gas prices as a key driver of their cash flows.
Oil and Natural Gas Prices
Oil and natural gas prices are summarized in the table below as averages of the daily closing prices during each of the periods indicated.

2019                                                            2018
Brent oil prices ($/Bbl) (1)          $64.28              $71.34    
WTI oil prices ($/Bbl) (2)             56.98               65.23    
Natural gas prices ($/mmBtu) (3)        2.56                3.15    

(1)   Energy Information Administration (EIA) Europe Brent Spot Price per Barrel

(2)   EIA Cushing, OK WTI (West Texas Intermediate) spot price

(3)   EIA Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Price per million British Thermal Unit
Outside North America, customer spending is most heavily influenced by Brent oil prices. After a volatile fourth quarter of 2018 when oil prices dropped nearly 40%, there was more stability and positive sentiment at the start of 2019. Brent oil prices increased from a low of $53.23/Bbl in January 2019, to a high of $74.94/Bbl in April 2019. However, the average Brent oil prices decreased to $64.28/Bbl in 2019 from $71.34/Bbl in 2018, primarily due to higher prices in the first three quarters of 2018. 
In North America, customer spending is highly driven by WTI oil prices, which similar to Brent oil prices, on average decreased to $56.98/Bbl in 2019 from $65.23/Bbl in 2018, and ranged from a low of $46.31/Bbl in January 2019, to a high of $66.24/Bbl in April 2019.
In North America, natural gas prices, as measured by the Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Price, averaged $2.56/mmBtu in 2019, representing a 19% decrease over the prior year. Throughout the year, Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Prices ranged from a high of $4.25/mmBtu in March 2019 to a low of $1.75/mmBtu in December 2019. According to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), working natural gas in storage at the end of 2019 was 3,192 billion cubic feet (Bcf), which was 15.3%, or 487 Bcf, above the corresponding week in 2018.
Baker Hughes Rig Count
The Baker Hughes rig counts are an important business barometer for the drilling industry and its suppliers. When drilling rigs are active they consume products and services produced by the oil service industry. Rig count trends are driven by the exploration and development spending by oil and natural gas companies, which in turn is influenced by current and future price expectations for oil and natural gas. The counts may reflect the relative strength and stability of energy prices and overall market activity, however, these counts should not be solely relied on as other specific and pervasive conditions may exist that affect overall energy prices and market activity.
We have been providing rig counts to the public since 1944. We gather all relevant data through our field service personnel, who obtain the necessary data from routine visits to the various rigs, customers, contractors and 
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 29

other outside sources as necessary. We base the classification of a well as either oil or natural gas primarily upon filings made by operators in the relevant jurisdiction. This data is then compiled and distributed to various wire services and trade associations and is published on our website. We believe the counting process and resulting data is reliable, however, it is subject to our ability to obtain accurate and timely information. Rig counts are compiled weekly for the U.S. and Canada and monthly for all international rigs. Published international rig counts do not include rigs drilling in certain locations, such as Russia, the Caspian region and onshore China because this information is not readily available.
Beginning in the second quarter of 2019, Ukraine was added to the Baker Hughes international rig count. The Company will continue tracking active drilling rigs in the country going forward. Historical periods will not be updated.
Rigs in the U.S. and Canada are counted as active if, on the day the count is taken, the well being drilled has been started but drilling has not been completed and the well is anticipated to be of sufficient depth to be a potential consumer of our drill bits. In international areas, rigs are counted on a weekly basis and deemed active if drilling activities occurred during the majority of the week. The weekly results are then averaged for the month and published accordingly. The rig count does not include rigs that are in transit from one location to another, rigging up, being used in non-drilling activities including production testing, completion and workover, and are not expected to be significant consumers of drill bits.
The rig counts are summarized in the table below as averages for each of the periods indicated.

2019                                 2018
North America   1,077           1,223    
International   1,097             988    
Worldwide       2,174           2,211    
2019 Compared to 2018
Overall the rig count was 2,174 in 2019, a decrease of 2% as compared to 2018 due primarily to North American activity. The rig count in North America decreased 12% in 2019 compared to 2018, as a result of lower commodity prices and exploration and production capital expenditure reductions. Internationally, the rig count increased 11% in 2019 as compared to the same period last year. Excluding Ukraine, the international rig count was up 6% when compared to the same period last year.
Within North America, the decrease was primarily driven by the Canadian rig count, which was down 30% on average when compared to the same period last year, and a decrease in the U.S. rig count, which was down 9% on average. Internationally, the improvement in the rig count was driven primarily by increases in the Europe region of 72%, primarily related to the addition of Ukraine during the second quarter of 2019. Excluding Ukraine, the rig count in the Europe region was up 15%. The Africa region and Middle East region, were also up by 19% and 5%, respectively.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The discussions below relating to significant line items from our consolidated and combined statements of income (loss) are based on available information and represent our analysis of significant changes or events that impact the comparability of reported amounts. Where appropriate, we have identified specific events and changes that affect comparability or trends and, where reasonably practicable, have quantified the impact of such items. In addition, the discussions below for revenue and cost of revenue are on a total basis as the business drivers for product sales and services are similar. All dollar amounts in tabulations in this section are in millions of dollars, unless otherwise stated. Certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers. 
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

Our results of operations are evaluated by the Chief Executive Officer on a consolidated basis as well as at the segment level. The performance of our operating segments is evaluated based on segment operating income (loss), which is defined as income (loss) before income taxes and equity in loss of affiliate and before the following: net interest expense, net other non operating income, corporate expenses, restructuring, impairment and other charges, inventory impairment, separation and merger related costs, and certain gains and losses not allocated to the operating segments. 
In evaluating the segment performance, the Company uses the following: 
Volume: Volume is the increase or decrease in products and/or services sold period-over-period excluding the impact of foreign exchange and price. The volume impact on profit is calculated by multiplying the prior period profit rate by the change in revenue volume between the current and prior period. It also includes price, defined as the change in sales price for a comparable product or service period-over-period and is calculated as the period-over-period change in sales prices of comparable products and services.
Foreign Exchange (FX): FX measures the translational foreign exchange impact, or the translation impact of the period-over-period change on sales and costs directly attributable to change in the foreign exchange rate compared to the U.S. dollar. FX impact is calculated by multiplying the functional currency amounts (revenue or profit) with the period-over-period FX rate variance, using the average exchange rate for the respective period. 
(Inflation)/Deflation: (Inflation)/deflation is defined as the increase or decrease in direct and indirect costs of the same type for an equal amount of volume. It is calculated as the year-over-year change in cost (i.e. price paid) of direct material, compensation & benefits and overhead costs.
Productivity:  Productivity is measured by the remaining variance in profit, after adjusting for the period-over-period impact of volume & price, foreign exchange and (inflation)/deflation as defined above. Improved or lower period-over-period cost productivity is the result of cost efficiencies or inefficiencies, such as cost decreasing or increasing more than volume, or cost increasing or decreasing less than volume, or changes in sales mix among segments. This also includes the period-over-period variance of transactional foreign exchange, aside from those foreign currency devaluations that are reported separately for business evaluation purposes.
Orders and Remaining Performance Obligations
Our statement of income (loss) displays sales and costs of sales in accordance with SEC regulations under which “goods” is required to include all sales of tangible products and “services” must include all other sales, including other services activities. For the amounts shown below, we distinguish between “equipment” and “product services,” where product services refers to sales under product services agreements, including sales of both goods (such as spare parts and equipment upgrades) and related services (such as monitoring, maintenance and repairs), which is an important part of our operations. We refer to “product services” simply as “services” within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Orders: We recognized orders of $26,973 million and $23,904 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. In 2019, equipment orders were up 26% and service orders were up 3%, compared to 2018.
Remaining Performance Obligations (RPO): As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) performance obligations was $22.9 billion and $21.0 billion, respectively.
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

Revenue and Segment Operating Income Before Tax
Revenue and segment operating income for each of our four operating segments is provided below.
                                                   Year Ended December 31,                $ Change
2019                                                                  2018       From 2018 to 2019
Revenue:                                                                                          
Oilfield Services                          $12,889           $11,617                $1,272        
Oilfield Equipment                           2,921             2,641                   280        
Turbomachinery &amp; Process Solutions       5,536             6,015                  (479       )
Digital Solutions                            2,492             2,604                  (112       )
Total                                      $23,838           $22,877                  $961        

                                                                       Year Ended December 31,                $ Change
2019                                                                                      2018       From 2018 to 2019
Segment operating income:                                                                                             
Oilfield Services                                                 $917              $785                  $132        
Oilfield Equipment                                                  55                 —                    55        
Turbomachinery &amp; Process Solutions                             719               621                    98        
Digital Solutions                                                  343               390                   (47       )
Total segment operating income                                   2,035             1,796                   239        
Corporate                                                         (433     )        (405     )             (28       )
Inventory impairment and related charges (1)                         —              (105     )             105        
Restructuring, impairment and other                               (342     )        (433     )              91        
Separation and merger related                                     (184     )        (153     )             (31       )
Operating income                                                 1,074               701                   373        
Other non operating income (loss), net                             (84     )         202                  (286       )
Interest expense, net                                             (237     )        (223     )             (14       )
Income before income taxes and equity in loss of affiliate         753               680                    73        
Equity in loss of affiliate                                          —              (139     )             139        
Provision for income taxes                                        (482     )        (258     )            (224       )
Net income                                                        $271              $283                  $(12       )

(1)   Inventory impairments and related charges are reported in the "Cost of goods sold" caption of the consolidated and combined statements of income (loss).
Fiscal Year 2019 to Fiscal Year 2018
Revenue in 2019 was $23,838 million, an increase of $961 million, or 4%, from 2018. This increase in revenue was largely a result of increased activity in OFS and OFE partially offset by declines in TPS and DS. OFS increased $1,272 million, OFE increased $280 million, TPS decreased $479 million and DS decreased $112 million.
Total segment operating income in 2019 was $2,035 million, an increase of $239 million, or 13%, from 2018. The increase was primarily driven by OFS, which increased $132 million, OFE, which increased $55 million and TPS, which increased $98 million, partially offset by DS, which decreased $47 million.
Oilfield Services
OFS 2019 revenue was $12,889 million, an increase of $1,272 million from 2018, primarily as a result of increased international activity in 2019 compared to 2018. International revenue was $8,293 million in 2019, an increase of $1,386 million from 2018, with faster growth than the international rig count driven by activity in the 
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. North America revenue was $4,596 million in 2019, a decrease of $114 million from 2018 driven by declining rig counts in North America.
OFS 2019 segment operating income was $917 million, compared to $785 million in 2018. The increase was primarily driven by higher volume and increased cost productivity.
Oilfield Equipment
OFE 2019 revenue was $2,921 million, an increase of $280 million, or 11%, from 2018. The increase was primarily driven by higher volume in the subsea production systems business and subsea services business. These increases were partially offset by lower volume in the flexible pipe business.
OFE 2019 segment operating income was $55 million, compared to breakeven in 2018. The increase was primarily driven by higher volume and increased cost productivity.
Turbomachinery & Process Solutions
TPS 2019 revenue was $5,536 million, a decrease of $479 million, or 8%, from 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by lower equipment installation volume and business dispositions, partially offset by higher contractual services revenue. Equipment revenue in 2019 represented 36% and Service revenue represented 64% of total revenue.
TPS 2019 segment operating income was $719 million, compared to $621 million in 2018. The increase in profitability was driven primarily by higher cost productivity and favorable business mix.
Digital Solutions
DS 2019 revenue was $2,492 million, a decrease of $112 million, or 4%, from 2018, driven primarily by lower volume in Bentley, controls, pipeline and process solutions, and software businesses, partially offset by higher volume in the measurement & sensing business. 
DS 2019 segment operating income was $343 million, compared to $390 million in 2018. The decrease in profitability was driven by lower volume and negative cost productivity.
Corporate
In 2019, corporate expenses were $433 million, an increase of $28 million compared to 2018, primarily from the additional expenses related to the separation from GE.
Restructuring, Impairment and Other 
In 2019, we recognized $342 million in restructuring, impairment and other charges, a decrease of $91 million compared to 2018. This decrease was primarily due to the accelerated amortization costs in 2018 that did not repeat in 2019, and reduced integration related restructuring activities partially offset by additional charges in our OFS segment focused on supply chain optimization, improving asset utilization, and driving down product and service delivery costs.
Separation and Merger related 
We recorded $184 million of separation and merger related costs in 2019, an increase of $31 million from the prior year. Costs in 2019 primarily relate to the finalization of the Master Agreement Framework and the ongoing activities related to the separation from GE. In 2018, separation and merger related costs primarily included costs associated with the integration of BHI.
Interest Expense, Net
In 2019, we incurred net interest expense of $237 million, an increase of $14 million from the prior year, primarily driven by costs associated with refinancing our Senior Notes due August 2021 and lower interest income. 
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

Equity in Loss of Affiliate
As we have discontinued applying the equity method on our investment in BJ Services, we did not record any gain or loss during 2019 compared to a loss of $139 million in 2018. We will resume application of the equity method only after our share of unrecognized net income equals our share of net loss not recognized during the period the equity method was suspended. 
Income Tax
In 2019, our income tax expense increased by $224 million, from $258 million in 2018 to $482 million in 2019. The increase was primarily due to higher foreign taxes related to increased foreign earnings and geographical mix of earnings.
COMPLIANCE
We, in the conduct of all of our activities, are committed to maintaining the core values of our Company, as well as high safety, ethical and quality standards (Standards) as also reported in our Quality Management System (QMS). We believe such a commitment is integral to running a sound, successful, and sustainable business. To ensure that we live up to our high Standards, we devote significant resources to maintain a comprehensive global ethics and compliance program (Compliance Program) which is designed to prevent, detect, and appropriately respond in a timely fashion to any potential violations of the law, Our Way: The Baker Hughes Code of Conduct, and other Company policies and procedures.
Highlights of our Compliance Program include the following:

•   Comprehensive internal policies over such areas as anti-bribery; travel, entertainment, gifts and charitable donations to government officials and other parties; payments to commercial sales representatives; and, the use of non-U.S. police or military organizations for security purposes. In addition, there are policies and procedures to address customs requirements, visa processing risks, export and re-export controls, economic sanctions, anti-money laundering and anti-boycott laws.

•   Global structure of Legal Compliance Counsel and other professionals providing compliance advice, customized training and governance, as well as investigating concerns across all regions and countries where we do business.

•   Comprehensive employee compliance training program that combines instructor-led and web-based training modules tailored to the key risks that employees face on an ongoing basis.

•   Due diligence procedures for third parties who conduct business on our behalf, including commercial sales agents, administrative service providers, and professional consultants, as well as an enhanced risk-based process for classifying channel partners and suppliers.

•   Due diligence procedures for merger and acquisition activities.

•   Specifically tailored compliance risk assessments and audits focused on country and third party risk.

•   Compliance Review Board comprised of senior officers of the Company that meets quarterly to monitor effectiveness of the Compliance Program, as well as Product Company and regional compliance committees that meet quarterly.

•   Technology to monitor and report on compliance matters, including an internal investigations management system, a web-based anti-boycott reporting tool, global trade management systems and comprehensive watch list screening.

•   A compliance program designed to create an “Open Reporting Environment” where employees are encouraged to report any ethics or compliance matter without fear of retaliation, including a global network of trained employee ombudspersons, and a worldwide, 24-hour business helpline operated by a third party and available in approximately 150 languages.
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 


•   Centralized finance organization with company-wide policies.

•   Anti-corruption audits of high-risk countries conducted by Legal Compliance and Internal Audit, as well as risk-based compliance audits of third parties conducted by Legal Compliance.

•   We have region-specific processes and procedures for management of HR related issues, including pre-hire screening of employees; a process to screen existing employees prior to promotion into select roles where they may be exposed to finance and/or corruption-related risks; and implementation of a global new hire compliance training module for all employees.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
Our objective in financing our business is to maintain sufficient liquidity, adequate financial resources and financial flexibility in order to fund the requirements of our business. At December 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $3,249 million compared to $3,723 million at December 31, 2018. Cash and cash equivalents includes $162 million and $747 million of cash held on behalf of GE at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Excluding cash held on behalf of GE, our U.S. subsidiaries held approximately $0.4 billion and $0.7 billion while our foreign subsidiaries held approximately $2.7 billion and $2.3 billion of our cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. A substantial portion of the cash held by foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2019 has been reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations. If we decide at a later date to repatriate those funds to the U.S., they will generally be free of U.S. federal tax but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes.
In December 2019, BHGE LLC entered into a $3 billion committed unsecured revolving credit facility (the 2019 Credit Agreement) with commercial banks maturing in December 2024. The 2019 Credit Agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties, certain customary affirmative covenants and certain customary negative covenants. Upon the occurrence of certain events of default, BHGE LLC's obligations under the 2019 Credit Agreement may be accelerated. Such events of default include payment defaults to lenders under the 2019 Credit Agreement and other customary defaults. No such events of default have occurred. In connection with BHGE LLC’s entry into the 2019 Credit Agreement, BHGE LLC terminated its then-existing five-year committed $3 billion revolving credit agreement dated as of July 3, 2017 (the 2017 Credit Agreement). During 2019 and 2018, there were no borrowings under the 2019 or 2017 Credit Agreement. 
BHGE LLC has a commercial paper program under which it may issue from time to time up to $3 billion in commercial paper with maturities of no more than 397 days. At December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program. 
If market conditions were to change and our revenue was reduced significantly or operating costs were to increase, our cash flows and liquidity could be reduced. Additionally, it could cause the rating agencies to lower our credit rating. There are no ratings triggers that would accelerate the maturity of any borrowings under our committed credit facility. However, a downgrade in our credit ratings could increase the cost of borrowings under the credit facility and could also limit or preclude our ability to issue commercial paper. Should this occur, we could seek alternative sources of funding, including borrowing under the credit facility.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, we used cash to fund a variety of activities including certain working capital needs and restructuring costs, capital expenditures, the repayment of debt, payment of dividends, distributions to GE and share repurchases. We believe that cash on hand, cash flows generated from operations and the available credit facility will provide sufficient liquidity to manage our global cash needs.
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

Cash Flows
Cash flows provided by (used in) each type of activity were as follows for the years ended December 31:

(In millions)                   2019            2018
Operating activities      $2,126          $1,762    
Investing activities      (1,045   )        (578   )
Financing activities      (1,534   )      (4,363   )
Fiscal Year 2019 to Fiscal Year 2018
Operating Activities
Our largest source of operating cash is payments from customers, of which the largest component is collecting cash related to our sales of products and services including advance payments or progress collections for work to be performed. The primary use of operating cash is to pay our suppliers, employees, tax authorities and others for a wide range of goods and services.
Cash flows from operating activities generated cash of $2,126 million and $1,762 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Cash flows from operating activities increased $364 million in 2019 primarily driven by improved operating performance. These cash inflows were supported by $553 million of working capital generation mainly due to net positive progress collections and receivables in TPS for equipment contracts, as well as continued improvement in our working capital processes. Included in our cash flows from operating activities for 2019 and 2018 are payments of $307 million and $473 million, respectively, made primarily for employee severance as a result of our restructuring activities and separation and merger related costs including the build-out of information technology infrastructure as a result of GE separation activities.
Investing Activities
Cash flows from investing activities used cash of $1,045 million and $578 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our principal recurring investing activity is the funding of capital expenditures to ensure that we have the appropriate levels and types of machinery and equipment in place to generate revenue from operations. Expenditures for capital assets totaled $1,240 million and $995 million for 2019 and 2018, respectively, partially offset by cash flows from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $264 million and $458 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Proceeds from the disposal of assets related primarily to equipment that was lost-in-hole, and to property, machinery and equipment no longer used in operations that was sold throughout the period. In 2019, we received $77 million from the sale of our high-speed reciprocating compression business. In 2018, we received $453 million from the sale of businesses primarily driven by the sale of our Natural Gas Solution (NGS) business for $375 million. Also in 2018, the Company and ADNOC signed a strategic partnership agreement under which we acquired a five percent stake in ADNOC Drilling for a cash consideration of $500 million. 
Financing Activities
Cash flows from financing activities used cash of $1,534 million and $4,363 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 
During 2019, we paid aggregate dividends of $395 million to our Class A stockholders, and BHGE LLC made a distribution of $350 million to GE. Additionally, in September 2019, BHGE LLC repurchased 11.9 million Units from GE for a cash consideration of $250 million. In total, we returned $995 million of cash to our shareholders through share buybacks, dividends to our Class A stockholders and distributions to GE. 
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

During 2018, we paid aggregate dividends of $315 million to our Class A stockholders, and BHGE LLC made a distribution of $495 million to GE. We used cash of $387 million and $638 million, respectively, to repurchase and cancel our shares of Class A and Class B common stock and corresponding paired Units in BHGE LLC, on a pro rata basis. Additionally, in November 2018, BHGE LLC repurchased 65 million Units from GE for a cash consideration of $1,461 million. In total, we returned $3.3 billion of cash to our shareholders through share buybacks, dividends to our Class A stockholders and distributions to GE.
We had net repayments of short-term debt of $542 million and $376 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Repayment of our long-term debt of $570 million and $684 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, consisted primarily of repayment of certain Senior Notes.
In November 2019, BHGE LLC issued $525 million of 3.138% Senior Notes due November 2029. We used the proceeds from this offering to repurchase all of our outstanding 3.2% Senior Notes due August 2021. 
Cash Requirements
In 2020, we believe cash on hand, cash flows from operating activities, the available revolving credit facility and availability under our existing shelf registrations of debt will provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to manage our working capital needs, meet contractual obligations, fund capital expenditures and dividends, and support the development of our short-term and long-term operating strategies. When necessary, we issue commercial paper or other short-term debt to fund cash needs in the U.S. in excess of the cash generated in the U.S.
Our capital expenditures can be adjusted and managed by us to match market demand and activity levels. Based on current market conditions, capital expenditures, net of proceeds from disposal of assets, in 2020 will be made as appropriate at a rate that we estimate would equal up to 5% of annual revenue. The expenditures are expected to be used primarily for normal, recurring items necessary to support our business. We also anticipate making income tax payments in the range of $500 million to $600 million in 2020.
Contractual Obligations
In the table below, we set forth our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019. Certain amounts included in this table are based on our estimates and assumptions about these obligations, including their duration, anticipated actions by third parties and other factors. The contractual obligations we will actually pay in future periods may vary from those reflected in the table because the estimates and assumptions are subjective.

                                                                                                                        Payments Due by Period
(In millions)                                          Total             Less Than               1 - 3             4 - 5             More Than
                                                                            1 Year               Years             Years               5 Years
Total debt and finance lease obligations (1)      $6,410                $316                $1,314              $156              $4,624      
Estimated interest payments (2)                    3,609                 239                   474               399               2,497      
Operating leases (3)                               1,020                 230                   312               160                 318      
Purchase obligations (4)                           1,571               1,304                   231                21                  15      
Total                                            $12,610              $2,089                $2,331              $736              $7,454      

(1)   Amounts represent the expected cash payments for the principal amounts related to our debt, including finance lease obligations. Amounts for debt do not include any deferred issuance costs or unamortized discounts or premiums including step up in the value of the debt on the acquisition of BHI. Expected cash payments for interest are excluded from these amounts. Total debt and finance lease obligations includes $273 million payable to GE and its affiliates. As there is no fixed payment schedule on the amount payable to GE and its affiliates we have classified it as payable in less than one year.

(2)   Amounts represent the expected cash payments for interest on our long-term debt and finance lease obligations.

(3)   Amounts represent the future minimum payments under operating leases with initial terms of one year or more. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 


(4)   Purchase obligations include expenditures for capital assets for 2020 as well as agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.
Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of potential future cash outflows associated with our uncertain tax positions, we are unable to make reasonable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, to the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $573 million in uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties, have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. See "Note 13. Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for further information. 
We have certain defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans covering certain of our U.S. and international employees. During 2019, we made contributions and paid direct benefits of approximately $39 million in connection with those plans, and we anticipate funding approximately $32 million during 2020. Amounts for pension funding obligations are based on assumptions that are subject to change, therefore, we are currently not able to reasonably estimate our contribution figures after 2020. See "Note 12. Employee Benefit Plans" of the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for further information. 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
In the normal course of business with customers, vendors and others, we have entered into off-balance sheet arrangements, such as surety bonds for performance, letters of credit and other bank issued guarantees, which totaled approximately $3.9 billion at December 31, 2019. It is not practicable to estimate the fair value of these financial instruments. None of the off-balance sheet arrangements either has, or is likely to have, a material effect on our consolidated and combined financial statements.
As of December 31, 2019, we had no material off-balance sheet financing arrangements other than those discussed above. As such, we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such financing arrangements.
Other factors affecting liquidity 
Registration Statements: In November 2018, Baker Hughes filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR (Automatic Shelf Registration) with the SEC to have the ability to sell various types of securities including debt securities, Class A common stock, preferred stock, guarantees of debt securities, purchase contracts and units.  The specific terms of any securities to be sold would be described in supplemental filings with the SEC. The registration statement will expire in 2021.
In December 2017, BHGE LLC and Baker Hughes Co-Obligor, Inc. filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC to have the ability to sell up to $3 billion in debt securities in amounts to be determined at the time of an offering. Any such offering, if it does occur, may happen in one or more transactions. The specific terms of any debt securities to be sold would be described in supplemental filings with the SEC. The registration statement will expire in December 2020.
Customer receivables: In line with industry practice, we may bill our customers for services provided in arrears dependent upon contractual terms. In a challenging economic environment, we may experience delays in the payment of our invoices due to customers' lower cash flow from operations or their more limited access to credit markets. While historically there have not been material non-payment events, we attempt to mitigate this risk through working with our customers to restructure their debts. A customer's failure or delay in payment could have a material adverse effect on our short-term liquidity and results from operations. As of December 31, 2019, 19% of our gross trade receivables were from customers in the United States. Other than the United States, no other country or single customer accounted for more than 10% of our gross trade receivables at this date. As of December 31, 2018, 24% of our gross trade receivables were from customers in the United States. 
International operations: Our cash that is held outside the U.S., is 88% of the total cash balance as of December 31, 2019. We may not be able to use this cash quickly and efficiently due to exchange or cash controls that could make it challenging. As a result, our cash balance may not represent our ability to quickly and efficiently use this cash. 
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
Accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those considered to be the most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because they involve significant judgments and uncertainties. Many of these estimates include determining fair value. These estimates reflect our best judgment about current, and for some estimates future, economic and market conditions and their potential effects based on information available as of the date of these financial statements. If these conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described below could change, which may result in future impairments of goodwill, intangibles and longlived assets, increases in reserves for contingencies, establishment of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and increased tax liabilities, among other effects. Also, see "Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in Item 8 herein, which discusses our most significant accounting policies.
We have defined a critical accounting estimate as one that is both important to the portrayal of either our financial condition or results of operations and requires us to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments or estimates about matters that are uncertain. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has reviewed our critical accounting estimates and the disclosure presented below. During the past three fiscal years, we have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish the critical accounting estimates, and we believe that the following are the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated and combined financial statements. There are other items within our consolidated and combined financial statements that require estimation and judgment but they are not deemed critical as defined above.
Revenue Recognition on Long-Term Product Services Agreements
We have long-term service agreements with our customers predominately within our TPS segment. These agreements typically require us to maintain assets sold to the customer over a defined contract term. These agreements have average contract terms of 15 years. From time to time, these contract terms may be extended through contract modifications or amendments, which may result in revisions to future billing and cost estimates.
Revenue recognition on long-term product services agreements requires estimates of both customer payments and the costs to perform required maintenance services over the contract term. We recognize revenue on an overtime basis using input method to measure our progress toward completion at the estimated margin rate of the contract.
To develop our billings estimates, we consider the number of billable events that will occur based on estimated utilization of the asset under contract, over the life of the contract term. This estimated utilization will consider both historical and market conditions, asset retirements and new product introductions, if applicable. 
To develop our cost estimates, we consider the timing and extent of maintenance and overhaul events, including the amount and cost of labor, spare parts and other resources required to perform the services. In developing our cost estimates, we utilize a combination of our historical cost experience and expected cost improvements. Cost improvements are only included in future cost estimates after savings have been observed in actual results or proven effective through an extensive regulatory or engineering approval process. 
We routinely review the estimates used in our product services agreements and regularly revise them to adjust for changes. These revisions are based on objectively verifiable information that is available at the time of the review.
The difference between the timing of our revenue recognition and cash received from our customers results in either a contract asset (revenue in excess of billings) or a contract liability (billings in excess of revenue). See "Note 8. Contract and Other Deferred Assets" and "Note 9. Progress Collections and Deferred Income" of the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for further information.
We regularly assess customer credit risk inherent in the carrying amounts of receivables and contract assets and estimated earnings, including the risk that contractual penalties may not be sufficient to offset our accumulated investment in the event of customer termination. We gain insight into expected future utilization and cost trends, as well as credit risk, through our knowledge of the equipment installed and the close interaction with our customers 
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

through supplying critical services and parts over extended periods. Revisions to cost or billing estimates may affect a product services agreement’s total estimated profitability resulting in an adjustment of earnings; such adjustments generated earnings of $(1) million, $26 million and $44 million for the three years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We provide for probable losses when they become evident.
On December 31, 2019, our long-term product service agreements, net of related billings in excess of revenues, of $0.3 billion, represent approximately 2.9% of our total estimated life of contract billings of $10.3 billion.  Cash billings collected on these contracts were approximately $0.6 billion during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.  Our contracts (on average) are approximately 17% complete based on costs incurred to date and our estimate of future costs. Revisions to our estimates of future revenue or costs that increase or decrease total estimated contract profitability by 1% would increase or decrease the long-term product service agreements balance by $0.04 billion.
Goodwill and Other Identified Intangible Assets
We test goodwill for impairment annually using data as of July 1 of that year. The impairment test consists of two different steps: in step one, the carrying value of the reporting unit is compared with its fair value, in step two, which is applied only when the carrying value is more than its fair value, the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, is derived by deducting the fair value of the reporting unit’s assets and liabilities from the fair value of its equity and comparing that amount with the carrying amount of goodwill. We determine fair values of each of the reporting units using the market approach, when available and appropriate, or the income approach, or a combination of both. We assess the valuation methodology based upon the relevance and availability of the data at the time the valuation is performed. 
Pension Assumptions
Pension benefits are calculated using significant inputs to the actuarial models that measure pension benefit obligations and related effects on operations. Two assumptions, discount rate and expected return on assets, are important elements of plan expense and asset/liability measurement. We evaluate these critical assumptions at least annually on a plan and country specific basis. We periodically evaluate other assumptions involving demographic factors such as retirement age, mortality and turnover, and update them to reflect its experience and expectations for the future. Actual results in any given year will often differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors.
Projected benefit obligations are measured as the present value of expected payments discounted using the weighted average of market observed yields for high quality fixed income securities with maturities that correspond to the payment of benefits, lower discount rates increase present values and subsequent year pension expense and higher discount rates decrease present values and subsequent year pension expense. The discount rates used to determine the benefit obligations for our principal pension plans at December 31, 2019 and 2018 were 2.34% and 3.43%, respectively, reflecting market interest rates. Our expected return on assets at December 31, 2019 and 2018 was 5.48% and 5.94%, respectively.
Income Taxes
We operate in more than 120 countries and our effective tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and differences between tax laws and the GAAP in these various jurisdictions. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Our income tax rate is significantly affected by the tax rate on our global operations. In addition to local country tax laws and regulations, this rate depends on the extent earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Historically, U.S. taxes were due upon repatriation of foreign earnings. Due to the enactment of U.S. tax reform, repatriations of foreign earnings will generally be free of U.S. federal tax but may incur other taxes such as withholding or state taxes. Indefinite reinvestment is determined by management’s judgment about and intentions concerning the future operations of the Company. Most of these earnings have been reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations. However, as a result of U.S. tax reform, substantially all of our 2017 and prior unrepatriated foreign earnings were subject to U.S. tax and, accordingly, we expect to have the ability to repatriate those earnings without incremental U.S. federal tax. As of December 31, 2019, the cumulative amount of indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings is approximately $6.7 
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

billion. Computation of the potential deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings and any other basis differences is not practicable.
Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future years. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates. We use our historical experience and short and long range business forecasts to provide insight. We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (U.S. tax reform) that lowers the statutory tax rate on U.S. earnings, taxes historic foreign earnings previously deferred from U.S. taxation at a reduced rate of tax (transition tax), establishes a territorial tax system and enacts new taxes associated with global operations.
The impact of U.S. tax reform was initially recorded on a provisional basis as the legislation provided for additional guidance to be issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury on several provisions, including the computation of the transition tax. Based on guidance received to date, finalization of purchase accounting for the BHI acquisition and finalization of our 2017 U.S. income tax returns, we have recorded a $107 million tax benefit in 2018 for the impact of tax reform primarily related to the revaluation of deferred taxes.
Additionally, as part of U.S. tax reform, the U.S. has enacted a tax on "base eroding" payments from the U.S. and a minimum tax on foreign earnings (global intangible low-taxed income). We have made an accounting policy election to account for these taxes as period costs.
Our tax filings routinely are subject to audit by the tax authorities in the jurisdictions where we conduct business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are resolved with the tax authorities or through the courts. We have provided for the amounts we believe will ultimately result from these proceedings, but settlements of issues raised in these audits may affect our tax rate. We have $451 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, at December 31, 2019. We are not able to reasonably estimate in which future periods these amounts ultimately will be settled.
Other Loss Contingencies
Other loss contingencies are uncertain and unresolved matters that arise in the ordinary course of business and result from events or actions by others that have the potential to result in a future loss. Such contingencies include, but are not limited to, environmental obligations, litigation, regulatory proceedings, product quality and losses resulting from other events and developments.
The preparation of our consolidated and combined financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and related disclosures as well as disclosures about any contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates and judgments on historical experience and other assumptions and information that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects are subject to uncertainty and, accordingly, these estimates may change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained and as the business environment in which we operate changes.
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
The determination of the collectability of amounts due from our customers requires us to make judgments and estimates regarding our customers' ability to pay amounts due us in order to determine the amount of valuation allowances required for doubtful accounts. We monitor our customers' payment history and current credit worthiness to determine that collectability is reasonably assured. We also consider the overall business climate in which our customers operate. Provisions for doubtful accounts are recorded based on the aging status of the customer accounts or when it becomes evident that the customer will not make the required payments at either contractual due dates or in the future. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, the allowance for doubtful accounts totaled $323 million and $327 million of total gross accounts receivable, respectively. We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to cover potential bad debt losses under current conditions, however, uncertainties regarding changes in the financial condition of our customers, either adverse or positive, could impact the amount and timing of any additional provisions for doubtful accounts that may be required. 
Inventory Reserves
Inventory is a significant component of current assets and is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. This requires us to record provisions and maintain reserves for excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory. To determine these reserve amounts, we regularly review inventory quantities on hand and compare them to estimates of future product demand, market conditions, production requirements and technological developments. These estimates and forecasts inherently include uncertainties and require us to make judgments regarding potential future outcomes. At December 31, 2019 and 2018, inventory reserves totaled $429 million and $430 million of gross inventory, respectively. We believe that our reserves are adequate to properly value potential excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory under current conditions. Significant or unanticipated changes to our estimates and forecasts could impact the amount and timing of any additional provisions for excess, slow moving or obsolete inventory that may be required. 
Acquisitions-Purchase Price Allocation
We allocate the purchase price of an acquired business to its identifiable assets and liabilities based on estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the amount allocated to the assets and liabilities, if any, is recorded as goodwill. We use all available information to estimate fair values, including quoted market prices, the carrying value of acquired assets and widely accepted valuation techniques such as discounted cash flows. We engage third-party appraisal firms to assist in fair value determination of inventories, identifiable intangible assets and any other significant assets or liabilities when appropriate. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact our results of operations.
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS TO BE ADOPTED
See "Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for further discussion of accounting standards to be adopted.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
See "Note 19. Related Party Transactions" of the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for further discussion of related party transactions.
Baker Hughes Company 2019 FORM 10-K | 

OTHER ITEMS
Brexit
United Kingdom has exited (Brexit) the European Union (EU) on January 31, 2020. As per the terms of the exit the UK has ceased to be an EU member but will continue to follow its rules and contribute to its budget for an 11 month transition period ending December 31, 2020. The purpose of the transition period is to give time for the UK and EU to negotiate their future relationship, including a trade deal. There remains significant uncertainty on the outcome of the negotiations and the terms of a future trade deal, if any. 
Although our customer base is global with predominant exposure to the U.S. dollar, we have a manufacturing and service base in the UK with some euro procurement, thus we are exposed to fluctuations in value of the British pound versus the U.S. dollar, euro and other currencies. We have a hedging program which looks to accommodate this potential volatility.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Form 10-K, including MD&A and certain statements in the Notes to Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "forward-looking statement"). Forward-looking statements concern future circumstances and results and other statements that are not historical facts and are sometimes identified by the words "may," "will," "should," "potential," "intend," "expect," "endeavor," "seek," "anticipate," "estimate," "overestimate," "underestimate," "believe," "could," "project," "predict," "continue," "target" or other similar words or expressions. Forward-looking statements are based upon current plans, estimates and expectations that are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The inclusion of such statements should not be regarded as a representation that such plans, estimates or expectations will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such plans, estimates or expectations include, among others, the risk factors in the "Risk Factors" section of Part 1 of Item 1A of this Form 10-K and those set forth from time-to-time in other filings by the Company with the SEC. These documents are available through our website or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval (EDGAR) system at http://www.sec.gov.
In light of such risks and uncertainties, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this annual report, or if earlier, as of the date they were made. We do not intend to, and disclaim any obligation to, update or revise any forward-looking statements unless required by securities law.
